README.md, before:

Lip Gloss
=========

<p>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/charmbracelet/lipgloss.svg" alt="Latest Release"></a>
    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss?tab=doc"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg" alt="GoDoc"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/actions"><img src="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
</p>

Style definitions for building command line applications.

```go

import "github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss"

var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("#04B575")).
    Background(lipgloss.Color("#3C3C3C")).
    PaddingTop(2).
    PaddingLeft(4).
    Width(24)

fmt.Println(style.Render("Hello, kitty."))
```


## Colors

Lip Gloss supports the following color profiles:

### ANSI 16 colors (4-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("5")  // magenta
lipgloss.Color("9")  // red
lipgloss.Color("12") // light blue
```

### ANSI 256 Colors (8-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("86")  // aqua
lipgloss.Color("201") // hot pink
lipgloss.Color("202") // orange
```

### True Color (24-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("#0000FF") // good ol' 100% blue
lipgloss.Color("#04B575") // a green
lipgloss.Color("#3C3C3C") // a dark gray
```

The terminal's color profile will be automatically detected, and colors outside
the gamut of the current palette will be automatically coerced to their closest
available value.


### Adaptive Colors

You can also specify color options for light and dark backgrounds:

```go
lipgloss.AdaptiveColor{Light: "236", Dark: "248"}
```

The terminal's background color will automatically be detected and the
appropriate color will be chosen at runtime.


## Inline Formatting

Lip Gloss supports the usual ANSI text formatting options:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).
    Italic(true).
    Faint(true).
    Blink(true).
    Strikethrough(true).
    Underline(true).
    Reverse(true)
```


## Block-Level Formatting

Lip Gloss also supports rules for block-level formatting:

```go
// Padding
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    PaddingTop(2).
    PaddingRight(4).
    PaddingBottom(2).
    PaddingLeft(4)

// Margins
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    MarginTop(2).
    RightMarginRight(4).
    MarginBottom(2).
    MarginLeft(4)
```

There is also shorthand syntax for margins and padding, which follows the same
format as CSS:

```go
// 2 cells on all sides
lipgloss.NewStyle().Padding(2)

// 2 cells on the top and bottom, 4 cells on the left and right
lipgloss.NewStyle().Margin(2, 4)

// 1 cell on the top, 4 cells on the sides, 2 cells on the bottom
lipgloss.NewStyle().Padding(1, 4, 2)

// Clockwise, starting from the top: 2 cells on the top, 4 on the right, 3 on
// the bottom, and 1 on the left
lipgloss.NewStyle().Margin(2, 4, 3, 1)
```


## Aligning Text

You can align paragraphs of text to the left, right, or center.

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Width(24).
    Align(lipgloss.AlignLeft).  // align it left
    Align(lipgloss.AlignRight). // no wait, align it right
    Align(lipgloss.AlignCenter) // just kidding, align it in the center
```


## Setting the height

In addition to the width, you can also set a minimum height.

```go
var str = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Width(24).
    Height(32).
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("63")).
    Render("What’s for lunch?")
```


## Copying Styles

Just use `Copy()`:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().Foreground(lipgloss.Color("219"))

var wildStyle = style.Copy().Blink(true)
```

`Copy()` performs a copy on the underlying data structure ensuring that you get
a true, dereferenced copy of a style. Without copying it's possible to mutate
styles.


## Inheritance

Styles can inherit rules from other styles. When inheriting, only unset rules
on the receiver are inherited.

```go
var styleA = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("229")).
    Background(lipgloss.Color("63"))

// Only the background color will be inherited here, because the foreground
// color will have been already set:
var styleB = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("201")).
    Inherit(styleA)
```


## Unsetting rules

All rules can be unset:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).                        // make it bold
    UnsetBold().                       // jk don't make it bold
    Background(lipgloss.Color("227")). // yellow background
    UnsetBackground()                  // never mind
```

Note that in the case of boolean values, unset values are different from falsey
ones in that values specifically set to `false` will be copied and inherited,
whereas unset values will not.


## Enforcing Rules

Sometimes, such as when developing a component, you want to make sure style
definitions respect their indended purpose in the UI. This is where `Inline`
and `MaxWidth`, and `MaxHeight` come in:

```go
// Force rendering onto a single line
someStyle.Inline().Render("yadda yadda")

// Also limit rendering to five cells
someStyle.Inline().MaxWidth(5).Render("yadda yadda")

// Limit rendering to a 5x5 cell block
someStyle.MaxWidth(5).MaxHeight(5).Render("yadda yadda")
```

## Rendering

Generally, you just call the `Render(string)` method on a `lipgloss.Style`:

```go
fmt.Println(lipgloss.NewStyle().Bold(true).Render("Hello, kitty."))
```

But you could also use the Stringer interface:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().String("你好，猫咪。").Bold(true)

fmt.Printf("%s\n", style)
```


## Joining Paragraphs

There are also some utility functions for horizontally and vertically joining
paragraphs of text.

```go
// Horizontally join three paragraphs along their bottom edges
lipgloss.HorizontalJoin(lipgloss.JoinTop, paragraphA, paragraphB, paragraphC)

// Vertically join two paragraphs along their center axes
lipgloss.VerticalJoin(lipgloss.JoinCenter, paragraphA, paragraphB)

// Horizontally join three paragraphs, with the shorter ones aligning 20%
// from the top of the tallest
lipgloss.HorizontalJoin(0.2, paragraphA, paragraphB, paragraphC)
```


## Placing Text in Whitespace

Sometimes you simply want to place a block of text in whitespace.

```go
// Center a paragraph horizontally in a space 80 cells wide. The height of
// the block returned will be as tall as the input paragraph.
block := lipgloss.PlaceHorizontal(80, lipgloss.Center, fancyStyledParagraph)

// Place a paragraph at the bottom of a space 30 cells tall. The width of
// the text block returned will be as wide as the input paragraph.
block := lipgloss.PlaceVertical(30, lipgloss.Bottom, fancyStyledParagraph)

// Place a paragraph in the bottom right corner of a 30x80 cell space.
block := lipgloss.Place(30, 80, lipgloss.Right, lipgloss.Bottom, fancyStyledParagraph)
```

You can also style the whitespace. For details, see [the docs][docs].

***


## Under the Hood

Lip Gloss is built on the excellent [Termenv][termenv] and [Reflow][reflow]
libraries which deal with color and ANSI-aware text operations, respectively.
For many use cases Termenv and Reflow may be sufficient for your needs.

[termenv]: https://github.com/muesli/termenv
[reflow]: https://github.com/muesli/reflow


## Rendering Markdown

For a more document-centric rendering solution with support for things like
lists, tables, and syntax-highlighted code have a look at [Glamour][glamour],
the stylesheet-based Markdown renderer.

[glamour]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/glamour


## License

[MIT](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/raw/master/LICENSE)


***

Part of [Charm](https://charm.sh).

<a href="https://charm.sh/"><img alt="The Charm logo" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/charm-badge-unrounded.jpg" width="400"></a>

Charm热爱开源 • Charm loves open source


[docs]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss?tab=doc

Commit message:

Add note about Bubble Tea/Bubbles to the README

README.md, after:

Lip Gloss
=========

<p>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/charmbracelet/lipgloss.svg" alt="Latest Release"></a>
    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss?tab=doc"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg" alt="GoDoc"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/actions"><img src="https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
</p>

Style definitions for nice terminal layouts

```go

import "github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss"

var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("#04B575")).
    Background(lipgloss.Color("#3C3C3C")).
    PaddingTop(2).
    PaddingLeft(4).
    Width(24)

fmt.Println(style.Render("Hello, kitty."))
```


## Colors

Lip Gloss supports the following color profiles:

### ANSI 16 colors (4-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("5")  // magenta
lipgloss.Color("9")  // red
lipgloss.Color("12") // light blue
```

### ANSI 256 Colors (8-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("86")  // aqua
lipgloss.Color("201") // hot pink
lipgloss.Color("202") // orange
```

### True Color (24-bit)

```go
lipgloss.Color("#0000FF") // good ol' 100% blue
lipgloss.Color("#04B575") // a green
lipgloss.Color("#3C3C3C") // a dark gray
```

The terminal's color profile will be automatically detected, and colors outside
the gamut of the current palette will be automatically coerced to their closest
available value.


### Adaptive Colors

You can also specify color options for light and dark backgrounds:

```go
lipgloss.AdaptiveColor{Light: "236", Dark: "248"}
```

The terminal's background color will automatically be detected and the
appropriate color will be chosen at runtime.


## Inline Formatting

Lip Gloss supports the usual ANSI text formatting options:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).
    Italic(true).
    Faint(true).
    Blink(true).
    Strikethrough(true).
    Underline(true).
    Reverse(true)
```


## Block-Level Formatting

Lip Gloss also supports rules for block-level formatting:

```go
// Padding
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    PaddingTop(2).
    PaddingRight(4).
    PaddingBottom(2).
    PaddingLeft(4)

// Margins
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    MarginTop(2).
    RightMarginRight(4).
    MarginBottom(2).
    MarginLeft(4)
```

There is also shorthand syntax for margins and padding, which follows the same
format as CSS:

```go
// 2 cells on all sides
lipgloss.NewStyle().Padding(2)

// 2 cells on the top and bottom, 4 cells on the left and right
lipgloss.NewStyle().Margin(2, 4)

// 1 cell on the top, 4 cells on the sides, 2 cells on the bottom
lipgloss.NewStyle().Padding(1, 4, 2)

// Clockwise, starting from the top: 2 cells on the top, 4 on the right, 3 on
// the bottom, and 1 on the left
lipgloss.NewStyle().Margin(2, 4, 3, 1)
```


## Aligning Text

You can align paragraphs of text to the left, right, or center.

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Width(24).
    Align(lipgloss.AlignLeft).  // align it left
    Align(lipgloss.AlignRight). // no wait, align it right
    Align(lipgloss.AlignCenter) // just kidding, align it in the center
```


## Setting the height

In addition to the width, you can also set a minimum height.

```go
var str = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Width(24).
    Height(32).
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("63")).
    Render("What’s for lunch?")
```


## Copying Styles

Just use `Copy()`:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().Foreground(lipgloss.Color("219"))

var wildStyle = style.Copy().Blink(true)
```

`Copy()` performs a copy on the underlying data structure ensuring that you get
a true, dereferenced copy of a style. Without copying it's possible to mutate
styles.


## Inheritance

Styles can inherit rules from other styles. When inheriting, only unset rules
on the receiver are inherited.

```go
var styleA = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("229")).
    Background(lipgloss.Color("63"))

// Only the background color will be inherited here, because the foreground
// color will have been already set:
var styleB = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Foreground(lipgloss.Color("201")).
    Inherit(styleA)
```


## Unsetting rules

All rules can be unset:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().
    Bold(true).                        // make it bold
    UnsetBold().                       // jk don't make it bold
    Background(lipgloss.Color("227")). // yellow background
    UnsetBackground()                  // never mind
```

Note that in the case of boolean values, unset values are different from falsey
ones in that values specifically set to `false` will be copied and inherited,
whereas unset values will not.


## Enforcing Rules

Sometimes, such as when developing a component, you want to make sure style
definitions respect their indended purpose in the UI. This is where `Inline`
and `MaxWidth`, and `MaxHeight` come in:

```go
// Force rendering onto a single line
someStyle.Inline().Render("yadda yadda")

// Also limit rendering to five cells
someStyle.Inline().MaxWidth(5).Render("yadda yadda")

// Limit rendering to a 5x5 cell block
someStyle.MaxWidth(5).MaxHeight(5).Render("yadda yadda")
```

## Rendering

Generally, you just call the `Render(string)` method on a `lipgloss.Style`:

```go
fmt.Println(lipgloss.NewStyle().Bold(true).Render("Hello, kitty."))
```

But you could also use the Stringer interface:

```go
var style = lipgloss.NewStyle().String("你好，猫咪。").Bold(true)

fmt.Printf("%s\n", style)
```


## Joining Paragraphs

There are also some utility functions for horizontally and vertically joining
paragraphs of text.

```go
// Horizontally join three paragraphs along their bottom edges
lipgloss.HorizontalJoin(lipgloss.JoinTop, paragraphA, paragraphB, paragraphC)

// Vertically join two paragraphs along their center axes
lipgloss.VerticalJoin(lipgloss.JoinCenter, paragraphA, paragraphB)

// Horizontally join three paragraphs, with the shorter ones aligning 20%
// from the top of the tallest
lipgloss.HorizontalJoin(0.2, paragraphA, paragraphB, paragraphC)
```


## Placing Text in Whitespace

Sometimes you simply want to place a block of text in whitespace.

```go
// Center a paragraph horizontally in a space 80 cells wide. The height of
// the block returned will be as tall as the input paragraph.
block := lipgloss.PlaceHorizontal(80, lipgloss.Center, fancyStyledParagraph)

// Place a paragraph at the bottom of a space 30 cells tall. The width of
// the text block returned will be as wide as the input paragraph.
block := lipgloss.PlaceVertical(30, lipgloss.Bottom, fancyStyledParagraph)

// Place a paragraph in the bottom right corner of a 30x80 cell space.
block := lipgloss.Place(30, 80, lipgloss.Right, lipgloss.Bottom, fancyStyledParagraph)
```

You can also style the whitespace. For details, see [the docs][docs].

***


## What about Bubble Tea?

Lip Gloss is a nice compliment to [Bubble Tea][tea]. Bubble Tea (and
[Bubbles][bubbles]) are are concerned with user interface logic, whereas Lip
Gloss works as an aid for for building the views that Bubble Tea will render.
Lip Gloss, in fact, was built after studying patterns we saw emerging as we
built user interfaces with Bubble Tea.

[tea]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/tea
[bubbles]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles


## Under the Hood

Lip Gloss is built on the excellent [Termenv][termenv] and [Reflow][reflow]
libraries which deal with color and ANSI-aware text operations, respectively.
For many use cases Termenv and Reflow may be sufficient for your needs.

[termenv]: https://github.com/muesli/termenv
[reflow]: https://github.com/muesli/reflow


## Rendering Markdown

For a more document-centric rendering solution with support for things like
lists, tables, and syntax-highlighted code have a look at [Glamour][glamour],
the stylesheet-based Markdown renderer.

[glamour]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/glamour


## License

[MIT](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss/raw/master/LICENSE)


***

Part of [Charm](https://charm.sh).

<a href="https://charm.sh/"><img alt="The Charm logo" src="https://stuff.charm.sh/charm-badge-unrounded.jpg" width="400"></a>

Charm热爱开源 • Charm loves open source


[docs]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss?tab=doc
